Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast.
You know, I am so excited to share this episode with you.
It is a conversation that I had recently with my friend, Adam Grant.
And if you don't know who Adam Grant is, he is an organizational psychologist.
He is a number one New York Times bestselling author.
He is a professor at Wharton, and he is one of the most
downloaded and popular TED Talk speakers ever.
And the reason why I wanted to have Adam on the podcast is because
he has a brand new book out. It's called Hidden Potential.
And the topic of this book is something that I am so passionate
about.
And I know based on the questions that you send into me every day,
that this is something that you're passionate about too.
And that is, how do you find and achieve your potential?
How do you figure out what you're meant to do with your life?
How do you tap into that feeling that there's something more for you?
How do you find more meaning or more purpose in your life?
And what I love about Adam's work and what he shares with you
in this conversation is that your potential is not determined
by your innate talent.
It's not determined by where you start.
It's not determined by how smart you are or how popular you are.
Your potential is determined by how willing you are
to learn and grow.
And in this conversation, Adam is going to teach you
a framework that you can use to figure out what it is
you want to do with your life and how to get started.
He's also going to explain why you don't need to be afraid
of trying new things.
And he's going to share a story about a guy named Michael
that is going to blow your mind and help you see that it is never
too late to start.
And I got to tell you, this conversation with Adam, it was so good.
It was so tactical that I actually stopped the interview at one point
and I asked him to coach me on something that I'm struggling with.
And what he shared with me, it not only helped me,
it is something that you can use to make any decision
in your life easier.
And so I want to dive right into this incredible conversation
with my friend, Adam Grant.
Adam, it is so good to see you. Welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast.
Mel, it's great to be here.
I am so excited to talk to you because you have a new book out
called Hidden Potential.
And I have to tell you, I was so excited to read it
because the topic of potential is something that I think about
all the time.
And I know our listeners do too, because one of the number one questions
I get Adam is, how do I figure out what I want to do with my life?
How do I figure out what my potential is? How do I find my purpose?
And so I'm really excited to talk to you about this.
And I want to start with a question that I have for you,
which is why this topic and why now?
Well, I think this is a topic that's been on my mind my whole life.
I was, I was the kid who was not picked for the basketball team.
I was the, the diver who belly flopped his way through
most of his early career.
And I've always been fascinated by how people who are overlooked
and underestimated end up surprising us.
And I think that the reason to write about it now is
I feel like we live in a world that is way too obsessed with talent.
We worship people who have these extraordinary god-given gifts,
or at least they seem to be god-given. And we overlook the fact
that the people who make the greatest strides are often the ones
who started out with ordinary abilities,
but did extraordinary things to develop them.
And I wanted to understand how they do that and what we can learn from them.
I love that. And I want to just pick up on something you said,
which is that we live in a world that is obsessed with talent.
And I think that that is one of the major things that holds people back
from finding their potential.
Because if you believe that you're either born with it or you're not,
then you don't even bother to try to develop the skills.
You don't bother to try to find something that you might be good at.
You just assume, well, I'm not talented, so I'm screwed.
I think that's exactly right. I think that the, the problem with
the talent obsession is it leads a lot of people to count themselves out.
It also leads a lot of organizations to make bad bets on people.
And I think it's time to rethink that. I think that, you know,
if you look at the evidence, the science is very clear that
potential is less about the height of your peak than the distance
you travel to get there.
It's about how far you've come and how far you still have to go.
And that's a function of not where you start, but how steep your
growth curve is.
So, say more about that because I think that's really important.
That potential is not about the height of your peak,
but the distance you travel.
Yeah, I think that we tend to judge potential by looking at
how high somebody has already climbed.
So, you know, if you're, if you're trying to figure out who has the most potential
in a classroom, you look at who has the best grades. If you're trying to figure out
who has the most potential in a sport, you look at who's already the star player.
And what we miss when we do that is we don't see how much
scaffolding somebody had to get to that point.
We don't see how many advantages they had, how many disadvantages
they might have overcome.
And I think a much better way to gauge potential is to look at
how much progress somebody has made.
So, you know, if you take two students, one of them starts out with an A+
and ends with an A+.
The other one starts out with a C- and works their way up to an A-.
I think the second student has shown a lot more potential.
They've demonstrated a capacity to learn and grow. And that's what
I think potential is all about.
I love that. And I think it's so important for everybody listening
to really let that sink in because it's not about where you start.
It's about the progress that you make. And I think that's so empowering
because it means that anybody, regardless of their circumstances,
can achieve their potential.
Yeah, I think that's right. And I think that, you know, one of the things that
I try to do in the book is to show that there are these skills
of character that we can all develop that allow us to punch
above our weight.
And these are things like being proactive, being a sponge,
being an imperfectionist, being a structure builder.
And these are not fixed traits. They're learnable skills.
And I think that's one of the most exciting things about the science of potential.
So let's talk about those skills because I think that's really where the rubber
meets the road.
You talk about these three character skills.
The first one is being proactive. What does that mean?
So being proactive is about taking initiative. It's about
not waiting for permission or for instructions. It's about
seeing a problem and trying to solve it, or seeing an opportunity
and trying to seize it.
And I think that, you know, a lot of people think that proactivity is something
that you're either born with or you're not.
But the evidence actually shows that it's a skill that you can learn.
And one of the ways you can learn it is by practicing what I call
"job crafting."
Okay, so what is job crafting? Because that sounds really interesting.
So job crafting is basically redesigning your job to make it
more meaningful and engaging.
And there are three ways to do it. The first is task crafting,
which is changing the number or the scope or the nature of your tasks.
The second is relational crafting, which is changing who you interact with
on the job.
And the third is cognitive crafting, which is changing how you think
about your job.
Okay, so give me an example of how somebody could use job crafting
to be more proactive.
So let's say you're a hospital cleaner, and your job is to clean rooms.
That's the task. But you could task craft by saying,
"You know what? I'm not just going to clean rooms. I'm going to try to make
patients feel more comfortable."
So you might rearrange the flowers, or you might, you know,
talk to the patients and try to cheer them up.
That's task crafting. Relational crafting would be, you know,
instead of just interacting with the nurses, you might also interact
with the doctors or the patients' families.
And cognitive crafting would be to say, "You know what? My job is not just
to clean rooms. My job is to help heal people."
And when you do those things, you're taking initiative, you're being proactive,
and you're making your job more meaningful and engaging.
I love that. And I think that's such a powerful example because it shows
that even if you're in a job that you don't necessarily love,
you can still find ways to make it more meaningful and engaging.
Exactly. And I think that, you know, the research on job crafting shows
that it leads to higher job satisfaction, higher performance,
and lower burnout.
So it's a really powerful tool for unlocking your potential.
Okay, so the second character skill you talk about is being a sponge.
What does that mean?
So being a sponge is about being open to learning and feedback.
It's about recognizing that you don't know everything and that you can
always learn from others.
And I think that, you know, a lot of people are afraid of feedback
because they see it as criticism. But if you can reframe it
as an opportunity to learn and grow, then it becomes
a really valuable tool.
And how do you become more of a sponge? Because I think a lot of people
do struggle with receiving feedback, especially if it's negative.
So one way is to actively seek out feedback.
Don't wait for it to come to you. Go ask for it.
And when you get it, try to listen with an open mind.
<v SPEAKER